Abstract?Full angle spatial compounding is of interest for
imaging small organs (breast, testicles) and small animals. Besides
phase aberration and out of plane refraction the variations in
speed of sound, usually assumed to be constant, also cause registration
error. This error may be negligible regarding the visual
appraisal of B-mode images; its effect on spatial compounding
of the individual scans may, however, be detrimental to the
spatial and contrast resolution depending on the geometry and
the variations of the acoustic speed. This effect was studied on
the basis of analytical modeling as well as measured data. An
exact compensation of the refraction artifacts is achieved via ray
tracing for known speed of sound distribution. An alternative
approach is to carry out axial correction disregarding the bending
due to refraction. The purpose of this paper is to study the
characteristics of the axial correction and the extent to which
the correction is sufficiently accurate. The effect of the speed
of sound variation in spatial compounding was studied with the
help of the point spread function (PSF). A geometrical acoustic
model was derived with eikonal approximation to calculate the
compounding PSF with axial correction as a function of the speed
of sound variations and the location of the point scatterer. The
effect of the speed of sound variation and the scatterer location on
the spatial compounding PSF with axial correction was studied
and the results were compared to those without correction. Axial
correction was also applied to data measured on a high precision
setup on phantoms corresponding to the modeled objects, in
order to validate the efficacy of the simulation techniques. The
results were found to conform to those predicted by the model.
The object was chosen to be of cylindrical shape having a constant
velocity either above or below the velocity of the surrounding
medium and containing only one scatterer. The PSF of the
compounding was shown to be generally of elliptical shape whose
extent along the radial direction remains constant for a given
speed of sound distribution and whose azimuthal extent decreases
with increasing radial distance from the center of the cylinder.
For a speed of sound 1550 m/s inside the cylinder of radius 3 cm
immersed in water at 22oC, the axial and azimuthal extents of the
compounding PSF of a point located 2 cm from the center without
correction was 2.32 mm and 1.76 mm respectively considering
an ideal B-mode PSF. The axial correction results in PSF radial
and azimuthal widths of 1.18 mm and 0.88 mm respectively. It
may be concluded that refraction tends to produce circular and
elliptical structures with decreasing azimuthal extents for higher
radial coordinates. The axial time delay compensation works at
the best in the vicinity of the center of rotation and may even
add to azimuthal spreading in the worst case for increasing radial
coordinates.
INTRODUCTION
Spatial compounding is applied generally to reduce the
effect of the speckle and to enhance the image definition. Full
angle variant of this technique is limited only to organs or objects
accessible from 360o for the given imaging plane. While
the speckle emerges due to the partially coherent nature of the
echosonography, it may be reduced if the data is compounded
incoherently. Though the speckle may be minimized when the
envelope of two or more images from different acquisitions are
added together, the variations in speed of sound add refraction
artifacts to the compound image, if the individual images
span a substantially large angle around the object. This may
be overcome completely if the speed of sound distribution
is known. The accurate correction consists of two steps;
calculation of the path of the refracted beams [2] and aligning
the individual A-lines along these paths [3]. This approach,
however, requires an accurate knowledge of the speed of sound
distribution for an accurate ray tracing. Another approach was
proposed in [4] which is based on approximating the refraction
with an axial shift thus ignoring the bending of rays due to
refraction. It was postulated that bending does not contribute
significantly to refraction errors and simply the axial shifting
of the respective A-lines according to the underlying speed of
sound distribution is sufficient to correct the refraction errors
[4]. Usually, in the context of echosonography, a uniform
speed of sound is assumed and the depth zk corresponding to
the kth sample of the backscattered signal is computed from
the arrival time kTs on the basis of equation 1, where Ts is
the sampling time.
The axial correction consists of calculating the depth zk corresponding
to the signal received at kth sample with equation
2, where the speed of sound associated with the depth zi is
ci.
It will be shown below that the applicability of this method is
limited by the location of the features and the speed of sound
distribution of the medium. The purpose of the current work
is to study the efficacy of the axial correction as well as that
of the approximate model used for this purpose.
Experimental Validation
Figure 6 shows the results of compounding with and without
axial correction carried out on the measured data. The cylindrical
object of diameter 6 cm containing four polypropylene
fibres stretched orthogonal to the imaging plane was filled
with ethylene glycol (c1 = 1664 m/s) and immersed in
water (c0 = 1490 m/s) at 22o C. The lower panels of the
figure show the magnified images of the compound image
without and with axial correction respectively. The results of
the simulation model are overlayed to the measurement results.
It may be noted that the results of simulation are in conformity
with those of the measurement regarding the width of the
point spread function. The small visual discrepancy, which
is irrelevant for the current discussion, is due to the fact that
the point spread function of the B-mode imaging system was
supposed to be ideal.
CONCLUSION
The experimental validation shows the model assumptions
to be well placed. Regarding the validity of the quantification
shown in the curves of figure 5, it may be noted that they
are applicable to the simulated case, in strict manner. It may
however be pointed out that the qualitative results summarized
below, remain valid for the most other cases possessing other
speed of sound distributions.
? Refraction tends to produce circular, elliptical and arc
shaped artifacts with decreasing azimuthal extents for
higher radial coordinates.
? The axial time delay compensation works at the best at
locations where the PSF of the uncorrected compound
image has a symmetrical circular shape. In the worst
case of higher radial coordinates, or generally, at locations
where the PSF of uncorrected spatial compounding
deviates substantially from the circular shape, the axial
correction may even increase the PSF width.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was funded by the the German Federal Ministry
of Education and Research bmb+f grant No. 01EZ0206 and
was carried out in cooperation with the Ruhr Center of
Excellence for Medical Engineering (KMR) Bochum.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Ashfaq and H. Ermert ¡°A new approach towards ultrasonic transmission
tomography with a standard ultrasound system,¡± IEEE Ultrasonic
Symposium Proceedings, pp. 1848-1851, 2004
[2] M. Ashfaq and H. Ermert ¡°An eikonal equation based scheme for
refraction artefacts compensation in time-of-flight tomography,¡± IEEE
Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings, pp. 2034-2037, 2005.
[3] M. Ashfaq, Ch. Hansen, W. Wilkening and H. Ermert ¡°Spatial compounding
with tissue harmonic images and monostatic synthetic aperture reconstruction,¡±,
IEEE Ultrasonic Symposium Proceedings, pp. 1220-1223,
2005.
[4] J. R. Jago Experimental and Theoretical Studies of Ultrasound Computed
Tomography, PhD Thesis, Faculty of Medicine, University of New Castle
upon Tyne, 1993.